# evite-system
Java code that simulates the website Evite used for party invitations.
This was the code I submitted for my final project in my Object-Oriented Programming course at USC. 
I have two hierarchies in my project: User and Party (both of which are Abstract classes). User contains variables like name, email, password, etc. and verifies the password that is entered.  Guest is a subclass of User and Host is a subclass of Guest. To simplify things, I made it such that a Host is a Premium user and a Guest is a Free user. On the other hand, Party has three subclasses: CasualParty, VisualParty, and CelebrationParty, each of which has their own collections/enum menus. Coding with these hierarchies helped me get a better grasp on polymorphism and inheritance with abstract classes. I also implemented MVC in my code by making EviteSystem a combined View and Controller that prints statements to the console and performs various actions based on user input, while my other Party/User/etc. classes make up the Model that provide the skeleton of the code and program, which is independent of the View. 
Strengths, Improvement, Lessons: I think one strength of my project is the inheritance hierarchy – it’s well-structured and implemented, and is used correctly in the program for all functions like logging in or creating an account, adding/removing guests, viewing different lists of parties, etc. I found that using inheritance hierarchy in my code made the process much easier. Another strength includes the functionalities of CasualParty and CelebrationParty. With the what-to-bring list, the guest can choose to bring a certain item, which then updates the what-to-bring list accordingly. For the gift list, the guest can choose to gift something if they are invited to a celebration party. I felt that coding these two functionalities not only gave me a better understanding of collections, but also distinguished the different party types from one another. An area of improvement in my program is allowing Guest to also be Premium. I had different ideas for what a Premium user could do when brainstorming but wasn’t able to implement them. Another area of improvement would be to print some of the lists numbered – for example, the what-to-bring list relies on the guest typing the item by name, but instead it could have been printed as a numbered list and the guest could have instead entered the item # to reduce error. I found myself having little time to implement this, but it is something I would improve in a future version. One lesson I learned is to carefully think out your design before coding or between different stages of coding – I would’ve probably saved a lot of time this way, rather than having to constantly change different variables among my classes. Another lesson I learned is that having a sample run method of some sort is always useful – previously, I had been going through a tedious set of steps multiple times to see if the code was working. When I implemented a fake data method, however, it became much easier to test my code – which I will keep in mind for the future. 
